Release 1.0.0 - 09.04.2026 - Jane Addams (#64)
nf-core/variantprioritization: docs/output.md

### VCF preprocessing

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `tabix/`
  - `*.tbi`: tabix index files created for input VCFs that were missing an index (for example `tabix/HCC1395T_vs_HCC1395N.mutect2.filtered.vcf.gz.tbi`).
- `bcftools/norm/`
  - `{sample}.{caller}.norm.vcf.gz` and `.tbi`: left-aligned, normalized VCFs produced by `bcftools norm` using the reference FASTA.
- `bcftools/filter/`
  - `{sample}.{caller}.norm.filtered.vcf.gz` and `.tbi`: filtered VCFs (using the `bcftools filter` module expression configured in `modules.config`) retaining indexed output.

</details>

Input VCFs are optionally bgzipped and indexed, then normalized and filtered per caller (e.g. Mutect2, Strelka). Output paths retain caller-specific prefixes to make downstream merging transparent.

### Variant formatting and intersection

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `custom/intersect_vcf/`
  - `{sample}_keys.txt`: table mapping each variant to the set of callers that support it (column 5 lists caller names). Used to propagate caller provenance into downstream VCFs.
- `custom/reformat/`

>   - `{sample}.{caller}.reformatted.vcf.gz` and `.tbi`: caller VCFs rewritten by `reformat_vcf.py` to add INFO tags such as `TDP`, `NAF`, `TAF`, `ADT`, `ADN`, and caller codes (`TAL`/`AL`). Tumor/normal order is auto-detected and reheadered accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `{sample}.{caller}.reformatted.vcf.gz` and `.tbi`: caller VCFs rewritten by `reformat_vcf.py` to add INFO tags such as `TDP`, `NAF`, `TAF`, `ADT`, `ADN`, and caller codes (`TAL`/`AL`). Tumor/normal order is auto-detected and the header is updated accordingly.
```
